In this video I'll demonstrate some common troubleshooting steps for storage related to an ESX host.
So I'm going to click on my first host here and we can look at the Summary tab and get a little quick
summary of the ESX host including the storage capacity and how much is actually used.
And from there we're actually going to go to the configure screen and at the configure screen we've
got a bunch of options here under storage.
So let's start with our first option.
So here we see multiple storage adapters.
Some of these are probably for my local storage devices and I've got local hard disks that are part
of this ESX I hosed.
So that's probably what some of my H.B. ways are automatically as a matter of fact only one of these
HBO was actually created by me.
I set up a software I scuzz the initiator.
And so the purpose of the software is because the initiator is to allow my ESX host to communicate with
an ice because the storage array.
And if we look at the properties of the storage adapter you can see here the name of it that it's a
nice cozy software adapter and we have a unique I Kihuen or ice because the qualified name that's just
an ice scuzzy addressing scheme.
So any device that's an ice Gazi device has one of these unique IQ winds associated with it.
And you can also see here I've configured what's called Dynamic discovery.
Right.
So dynamic discovery is basically how is this ESX I host going to find available Lunts and I've configured
dynamic discovery under targets here and set up a dynamic discovery so that my ESX I host will reach
out to $192 168 199 17 and queer yet to find out about available storage devices
if I want to perform a query on demand if I want to find out what's currently available on this storage
array.
I can do what's called a rescan and the rescan is going to basically have my ESX host find out hey are
there any new LUNs available.
Are there any new VM FS volumes that this host has access to that it just doesn't know about.
And so by performing a rescan I'm basically finding out the latest information
here under devices we see all of the Lund's that are available through this ice Gazi software adapter.
Mean if we look at some of our other HPH here you can see the ones that are available to each and every
one of these HBL is an a VM HBK one this is attached to my local desk's on this ESX host.
So I have a 60 gig local disk on this host.
It's reachable via HBO they want
V.M. HBO a zero is connected to my CD-ROM device.
Nvm HBO sixty five.
That's my software because the initiator
here we can see all of the paths that are available via the software I because the H.B. So these are
passed to 1 0.
As you can see based on the elves 0 here and the target 0 and target 0 is just simply my last.
Now one final thing I want to walk you through here related to software I scuzzy here under network
port binding.
You can choose the VM kernel ports that are going to be used to actually handle all of the scuzzy traffic.
So in this scenario I've only got one VM kernel port created on this host of PMK 0.
But I could potentially go create a separate VM kernel port on a different virtual switch connected
to a different physical network that's strictly dedicated to scuzzy.
So I can use network port binding to basically direct this ice because the traffic to whatever VM kernel
poor I want.
OK so now that we've looked at our storage adapters Let's go ahead and look at our storage devices here
under storage devices we can see all of the ones that are accessible to this ESX host.
If we click on them we can see some of the details about those Lund's broken down here below below the
one where you can see the capacity the location as well.
And then the transport mode that's being used in this case it's its eyes because the
if we look at our local desks again we can see similar properties listed for those as well.
And here are all the data stores that are available to this ESX host.
I've got one local data store called Data Store one and the second data store that's actually on my
scuzzy storage array called shared.
I can do things like increase the data storage capacity at the screen.
I can refresh the data store usage shown here and we have all sorts of other options as well.
And that's really all we need to look at from a storage perspective on our ESX host at least from a
basic troubleshooting configuration.
Now if you're doing some more advanced stuff like creating a host cache or using protocol and points
for virtual volumes there are some other options that are available to you here.
But as far as the foundations exam goes this is really the basic stuff that you need to know how to
troubleshoot.